President Obama is rolling out a campaign of private entreaties and public advocacy over the next several weeks to build support in Congress for the nuclear deal with Iran, an effort to counter a well-financed onslaught from critics who have promised to use a monthlong congressional recess to pressure lawmakers to oppose the accord.

In a speech at American University in Washington on Wednesday, Mr. Obama will seek to explain and defend the international agreement reached last month, which would lift some sanctions in exchange for restrictions on Iran’s ability to develop a nuclear weapon.

Mr. Obama, who campaigned for the presidency in 2008 promising to end wars in the Middle East, will use the speech to frame Congress’s choice as the most consequential foreign policy decision since the vote to go to war in Iraq, and he will say the deal’s opponents are the same people who supported that military conflict.

“He will make the case that this should not even be a close call,” a White House official said, speaking on the condition of anonymity to offer a preview of Mr. Obama’s message. The president will also say that it would be a “historic mistake to squander this opportunity — removing constraints on the Iranian program, unraveling the sanctions regime and damaging American credibility.”
Netanyahu Calls Iran Deal ‘Dangerous’

Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu of Israel spoke via webcast to Jewish institutions across the United States to outline his opposition to the Iran nuclear accord.
By THE ASSOCIATED PRESS on August 4, 2015. Watch in Times Video »

Anticipating a month of heavy lobbying and television advertising by opponents, led by the pro-Israel group Aipac, the president and members of his team are leaning on Democrats to declare their backing for the agreement before they leave Washington to face their constituents.

Mr. Obama, who will decamp to Martha’s Vineyard this weekend for his own two-week vacation, will have limited personal contact with wavering lawmakers, but his team has been instructed to make the president and other senior administration officials available to any skeptic with an unanswered question or concern about the deal. “Anyone who wants a phone call will get one,” one official said, speaking on the condition of anonymity to outline internal strategy.