On one edge of the Zion Square gathering, an Orthodox yeshiva student was in heated debate with a secular couple over the hierarchy of sin. On the other, young men wearing skullcaps rocked back and forth, reciting the evening prayer. In between, people sat cross-legged on the cobblestones amid an array of memorial candles and banners decrying violence, promoting love, demanding change.

The focal point was a black cloth with simple white chalk Hebrew letters spelling out “Ali Saad Dawabsheh” and “Shira Banki,” the Palestinian toddler burned to death in his West Bank home and the 16-year-old Jewish girl fatally stabbed at a gay pride march in Jerusalem. The back-to-back attacks a week ago, attributed to religious fanatics, set off a national outcry and reflection, with hundreds flocking here each night for a mixture of mourning and protest.

“Both names, Shira Banki and Ali Dawabsheh, are names that are going to be etched in Israeli history as a trigger point,” said Asher Krueger, a guitarist who led the group in songs of grief and hope. “And time will tell. Is this going to be a tearing apart of the conflicts in Israel, or a pivot point of people trying to understand each other, trying to live together?”
Groups formed at Zion Square in Jerusalem on Thursday to discuss the recent deaths of a 16-year-old Jewish girl and a Palestinian toddler, which have been attributed to religious fanatics. Rina Castelnuovo for The New York Times

This is a time of deep questioning across Israel, after two tragedies that underscored both the endless conflict with the Palestinians and its own internal struggle to balance a rising religiosity with civil rights. Have government policies and rabbinical authorities inspired or at least allowed a radical fringe to reach new depths of depravity? Who interprets Jewish law and Jewish values for the Jewish state? How did it come to this?

The trauma hit during anniversary commemorations of both last summer’s devastating war between Israel and Palestinian militants in the Gaza Strip and Israel’s contentious withdrawal of settlements and forces from Gaza a decade ago. It comes just five months after a divisive election that yielded the narrowest and most conservative government in recent memory.

For days now, there has been an outpouring of outrage: Israel’s chief rabbis published a newspaper ad declaring, “Violence is not the way of our holy Torah.” Sheikhs and rabbis, as well as politicians from opposing camps, made joint pilgrimages to visit Ali’s badly burned mother and 4-year-old brother in the hospital. Security forces have also reinvigorated their pursuit of right-wing radicals.

There has also been a backlash. The leader of a group that harasses gays and Jewish-Arab couples was recorded declaring that “churches must be burned.” Posters honoring the man arrested after stabbing six people at the pride march — “We pray that all of God’s nation were as filled with awe as you” — appeared in ultra-Orthodox neighborhoods, where many consider homosexuality an affront to God. Death threats against the right-wing leaders who vowed vengeance against the arsonists have been posted on social media sites.

And there has been blame. Palestinians and leftist Israelis argue that Israel’s nearly half-century occupation of the West Bank and impunity toward settler vandalism inevitably led to Friday’s firebombing of the Dawabsheh home. Gay rights advocates cannot understand how the police failed to stop Yishai Schissel, who had recently been released from prison for a similar attack at the 2005 pride march and had openly declared his intention to repeat it.

“Israeli society is embarrassed, because we know this is not who we are, it’s not who we want to think we are,” said Donniel Hartman, an Orthodox rabbi and the president of the Shalom Hartman Institute, a research and education group. “The interesting question for all of us is, ‘Is this going to be a growth moment or is it going to be another wasted Yom Kippur? Oh, we’ve sinned, and we feel so righteous for saying we’ve sinned.’

“I’m afraid there isn’t a context yet in which this could really create a societal change,” he added. “The core narrative in Israel is still an us-them, they’re-threatening-us narrative, and in an us-them, these are just moments.”

The attack on the Dawabsheh home may have more international significance; the official Palestinian news agency, Wafa, reported that the foreign minister had stressed it in a meeting this week with the prosecutor of the International Criminal Court. But for many in Jerusalem, the stabbing that killed young Shira was equally painful, highlighting the tension in a city where a third of the Jewish residents are ultra-Orthodox.

While Tel Aviv is celebrated as a mecca of gay nightclubs and same-sex couples pushing strollers, Jerusalem remains a place where gay and transgender youth often must choose between their orientation and their religious communities. It was only in 2012, after a decade-long court battle, that the Jerusalem Open House, which runs an H.I.V. clinic, support groups and a drop-in center, secured funding from City Hall. In the years between Mr. Schissel’s attacks, the pride march has been marred by Orthodox protesters hurling epithets and bags of urine.

“There’s a very mainstream perception in Israel that gays shouldn’t live openly in Jerusalem,” said Tom Canning, Open House’s director of development. “This is not religious people, it’s also secular people. ‘Why are you marching in Jerusalem? Go to Tel Aviv, you have Tel Aviv.’”

Mr. Canning said the group’s top priority is to gain access to public religious schools for tolerance education, and that it pressed for this in a meeting Monday with Naftali Bennett, the education minister, but “he didn’t make any promises.” Still, Rabbi Noa Sattath, who was chairwoman of Open House at the time of Mr. Schissel’s first stabbing, said “the reaction from the community is completely different.”

At that time, a post-stabbing rally drew 150 people and “we couldn’t get one member of Parliament to come,” Rabbi Sattath recalled. At a rally on Saturday night, Israel’s president spoke to a crowd of thousands, she noted, adding, “Our pain has become visible.”

The gathering in Zion Square, a bustling hub for tourists and Israeli teenagers alike, began spontaneously on Sunday after Shira, a pianist who had excelled at biology and theater at an elite Jerusalem high school, died of her wounds. Open House, the city government and other organizations then made efforts to turn it into a public shiva, the seven-day period of intense Jewish mourning, bringing in facilitators to lead structured conversations.

Sarah Weil has been there for hours each night, holding a large rainbow flag with a Star of David. She has been called an “animal” and an “abomination” by ultra-Orthodox passers-by. She has also had “confrontational dialogue” that she described as “raw and difficult and painful,” and “like witnessing revelation.”

“We have young ultra-Orthodox men coming, they’re coming because they’re actually curious, they want to meet a gay person,” Ms. Weil said. “We can pass laws and we can stage protests and we can write articles, but the way to open hearts and minds is to talk face to face.”

On Wednesday night, as Mr. Krueger crooned on the cobblestones, Noam Eyal, 30, whom Mr. Schissel had stabbed in the back at the parade, was in the crowd. Uniformed Israeli soldiers leaned on the police barriers surrounding the circle, smoking cigarettes, next to a middle-age couple licking ice cream cones. Inside, someone had painted a new placard that read, “Our hands did not spill this blood,” adorned with red handprints.

Naftali Sirchuk, 20, in the signature white button-down, black pants and black-velvet skullcap of his yeshiva, sat for nearly an hour arguing with Nir Cohen, 30, and Vered Hoshmand, 29, who both have degrees in philosophy. They debated the difference, biblically speaking, between homosexual love and pedophilia. They dissected the gemarah, centuries-old rabbinical teachings. They spoke of the Holocaust and the death penalty and whether murder can ever be just.

Just the sight of Mr. Sirchuk engaging with Ms. Hoshmand, who wore a spaghetti-strap tank top and short jeans skirt, was shocking in tribal Jerusalem. But after the long conversation, did any of the three think any differently?

“No,” said Mr. Sirchuk.

“No,” said Mr. Cohen.

“That’s not the right question,” said Ms. Hoshmand. “The most important thing is that the conversation is happening, not that we will change our view.”

For many relatives of the 239 people who were on the Malaysia Airlines jet that vanished 17 months ago, there was little or no solace in the Malaysian prime minister’s announcement that a wing part found on a remote island in the Indian Ocean had been “conclusively confirmed” to be from the plane.

The grief, frustration and suspicion of the authorities that had begun to recede with the passage of time were rekindled, with many focusing their ire on Prime Minister Najib Razak of Malaysia.

Many questioned the timing and the motives of the announcement by Mr. Najib in the early hours of Thursday, which came before Boeing, the plane’s manufacturer, was prepared to verify that the part was from the missing airliner, Flight 370. French investigators would say only that there were “very strong presumptions” that the wing part, called a flaperon, was from the plane, a Boeing 777.

“It has always been the case that Najib just couldn’t wait to announce some sort of closure,” Wen Wancheng, 63, whose son was a passenger on Flight 370, said in a telephone interview from his home in Jinan, in eastern China. “Najib rushed to make an announcement. Since the accident, Najib has been rushing to make announcements, but he didn’t have any proof before. Now that he has this debris, he couldn’t wait to make an announcement.”
Graphic

This animation shows where floating debris from Malaysia Airlines Flight 370 could have drifted if experts are correct about where the plane went down.

OPEN Graphic

Mr. Najib is already the focus of intense scrutiny because of reports in The Wall Street Journal and The Sarawak Report, a website based in Britain, saying that investigators had found documents indicating that almost $700 million from a troubled state development fund was transferred to accounts believed to be controlled by him.

The relatives of the Chinese passengers on Flight 370 have been vocal about their frustrations with Malaysia since the first hours after the plane’s disappearance. Though ground controllers lost contact with the plane about 40 minutes after takeoff, the authorities did not issue an alert about the missing plane for hours.

Then, Malaysia spent a full week directing a major search-and-rescue effort focused on the Gulf of Thailand, along the plane’s scheduled flight path, even though the Malaysian military had tracked an aircraft flying in nearly the opposite direction — westward and out into the Indian Ocean — which investigators later determined was Flight 370.

Eventually, based on the radar data and satellite signals received from the plane, investigators concluded that it must have gone down somewhere in the deep ocean west or southwest of Australia, and the Australian authorities have been searching the seabed there for 10 months but have not found anything. Tony Abbott, the Australian prime minister, said on Thursday that the effort would continue because “we owe it to the hundreds of millions of people who use our skies.”

Jean-Paul Virapoullé, the mayor of St.-André, in Réunion, the island where the wing debris was found, said in a statement that his town would organize a “meticulous search” of the beaches there next week.

“If it can soothe the terrible pain of these hundreds of families, the city of St.-André, with the agreement of the relevant international authorities, is ready to erect a memorial for the people who are missing,” the mayor said in the statement.

David Griffin, an Australian scientist who has mapped ocean currents in the area, said on Thursday that he believed more debris from Flight 370 could wash up on Madagascar, the much larger island to the west of Réunion.

“There could be a very large amount of debris floating, or a very small amount,” said Mr. Griffin, who is with the Commonwealth Scientific and Industrial Research Organization in Australia. “I am slightly surprised that something turned up at Réunion, rather than Madagascar, because Madagascar is so much bigger.”
The son, daughter-in-law and 3-year-old granddaughter of Bao Lanfang, center, were aboard the missing flight. Jason Lee/Reuters

The search for debris was another source of frustration with the Malaysians, but this time the ire did not come from relatives of passengers.

The Malaysian transportation minister, Liow Tiong Lai, told reporters in Kuala Lumpur on Thursday that a Malaysian team had found more aircraft debris on Réunion and had turned it over for analysis. He mentioned “a window, plane window, and also some aluminum foil,” as well as unspecified other items. But the French authorities in Paris denied that anything new had been found or submitted to them.

A person familiar with the investigation said on Thursday that considerable tension had developed between French and Malaysian officials over the public pronouncements by Mr. Najib and Mr. Liow.

For many people who had loved ones aboard Flight 370, the identification, or near-identification, of the wing part only intensified their desire to know why the jet had veered off its intended route to Beijing from Kuala Lumpur, the Malaysian capital, in the early hours of March 8, 2014, flown out over the Indian Ocean and disappeared without a trace — until now.

On Thursday morning, about 20 relatives gathered outside the Malaysia Airlines office in Beijing, demanding to talk to airline representatives and to fly to Réunion. More than two dozen police officers kept them from entering the office building.

“We don’t accept this; this is not closure,” said Dai Shuqing, who had five relatives on the plane, including her sister. “I don’t even know if our families have actually boarded the plane. Based on all these signs, it is just a man-made disaster. The Malaysians want to lie to the whole world, but they cannot lie to us. We will persevere and keep digging.”

Others outside the airline’s office held signs with slogans such as “Malaysia hides the truth.” Later in the day, some of the relatives moved the demonstration to Boeing’s office.

Chinese citizens made up about two-thirds of the people on the plane, and in Beijing, their relatives viewed Mr. Najib’s announcement with skepticism or outright disbelief.

“I don’t believe anything that comes out of the mouth of any Malaysian government officials,” said Steve Wang, whose 57-year-old mother was on the plane. “All the families learned that the hard way.”

FROM the earliest days of Starbucks, I’ve been captivated by the art of leadership. I was mentored over three decades by Warren G. Bennis, the eminent professor and scholar on leadership. I’ve gathered insights from peers, and I’ve drawn inspiration from our 300,000 employees. But nothing I’ve read or heard in the past few years has rivaled the power of the image I viewed on my cellphone a few years ago: Pope Francis, shortly after his election, kneeling and washing the feet of a dozen prisoners in Rome, one of them a young Muslim woman, in a pre-Easter ritual.

In recent weeks, I have taken to recalling that humble, inspiring act of servant leadership as I observe the antithesis: a field of presidential aspirants unable to rise above petty politics. I know candidates want to play to the party faithful during the primary season, but the challenges facing us today are too dire for another status-quo election. We cannot afford more false promises, slogans, theatrics and fool’s gold. Our nation has been profoundly damaged by a lack of civility and courage in Washington, where leaders of both parties have abdicated their responsibility to forge reasonable compromises to expand the economy, rebuild our infrastructure, improve schools, transform entitlement programs and so much more. We have become too desensitized to the horrendous metrics that define today’s America, from student-loan debt to food-stamp dependency to the size of our prison population.

As a boy growing up in public housing in Brooklyn, I was told by my mother that I could be the first in my family to graduate from college. A scholarship and an entry-level job at Xerox created a path upward that was typical for many of my generation.

For too many Americans, the belief that propelled me, that I had the opportunity to climb the ladder of prosperity, has greatly diminished. I hear it from coast to coast as I sit with customers in our stores. Six in 10 Americans believe that the younger generation will not be better off than their parents. Millennials have never witnessed politics devoid of toxicity. Anxiety, not optimism, rules the day.

Despite the encouragement of others, I have no intention of entering the presidential fray. I’m not done serving at Starbucks. Although we have built an iconic brand while providing even part-time employees with access to health care, free college education and stock options, there is more we can do as a public company to demonstrate responsible leadership.

The values of servant leadership — putting others first and leading from the heart — need to emerge from every corner of American life, including the business community.

While Americans have diverse views in what they want from Washington, I reject the notion that our divided and dysfunctional government is merely a reflection of what the political class calls the red-blue divide. Too many of our political leaders are putting party before country, power before principle and cynicism before civility. The common purpose that created this great nation, which has united us in difficult moments, has gone missing.

Our country is in desperate need of servant leaders, of men and women willing to kneel and embrace those who are not like them. Everyone seeking the presidency professes great love for our nation. But I ask myself, how can you be a genuine public servant if you belittle your fellow citizens and freeze out people who hold differing views?

Every one of the candidates offers grand promises about new leadership and new solutions. But where do they stand on working with their rivals? Regardless of who wins the presidency, the odds of the same party controlling a filibuster-proof Senate are slim. If we want to turn the nation around, we have to act differently. Save for the most rabid partisans, most people don’t want one-party rule. They want Democrats and Republicans to work together.

Americans who are tired of politics as usual should demand a clear answer to a simple question from every candidate: What will you do to unite all of us?

Our country deserves a candidate courageous enough to select a member of the other party as a running mate. Our country deserves a president humble enough to see leadership not as an entitlement but as a privilege.

The speculation about my candidacy reminds me of a lesson from a great Jewish leader. A decade ago, I visited the Western Wall in Jerusalem with Nosson Tzvi Finkel, a widely respected rabbi in Israel. As we approached one of the holiest sites in Judaism, the rabbi halted about 10 yards away as a crowd of admirers gathered nearby. I beckoned him further.

“I’ve never been closer than this,” the rabbi told me. Astounded, I asked why.

“You go,” he said. “I’m not worthy.”

Seventy years ago, the city was incinerated by an atomic bomb, its population halved by the new and terrifying American weapon nicknamed Little Boy.

On Thursday, political leaders, aging survivors and ordinary citizens gathered at 8:15 a.m. to mourn the moment when the city unwillingly became part of the world’s introduction to the nuclear age. The bomb dropped on Hiroshima, together with another that hit Nagasaki three days later, killed more than 200,000 people, most of them civilians.

At a ceremony near the onetime industrial exhibition hall that has been preserved as a skeletal monument to the attack, Prime Minister Shinzo Abe renewed a longstanding Japanese pledge to seek worldwide elimination of nuclear weapons. The mayor of Hiroshima, Kazumi Matsui, accused “selfish” nuclear powers, including the United States, of standing in the way of that goal.
A ceremony on Thursday to observe the 70th anniversary of the atomic bombing of Hiroshima, Japan. Chris Mcgrath/Getty Images

Mr. Abe and other dignitaries placed wreaths in front of the Hiroshima Peace Memorial Park’s eternal flame, where a placard reads: “Rest in peace. We will not make the same mistake again.” A minute of silence was punctuated by the ringing of a temple gong.

The memorial was witnessed by the United States ambassador to Japan, Caroline Kennedy, who was only the second American envoy to attend such a commemoration. Her predecessor, John V. Roos, first did so five years ago, on the 65th anniversary of the bombing, in a shift that was seen as symbolic of the Obama administration’s commitment to advancing the cause of nuclear disarmament.

But a visit to Hiroshima by President Obama himself, which many in Japan hoped would follow, never came — much less an apology by the United States for dropping the bombs. The desire for an apology has persisted here even as Japan struggles to come to terms with atrocities committed by its own forces during World War II.

Mr. Abe is also pursuing unpopular policies on two issues linked closely in the public’s mind with the bombings: national defense and nuclear energy. Small groups of demonstrators gathered at the edge of the ceremony grounds to protest moves by his government to pare back postwar restrictions on the military and to restart nuclear power plants idled after meltdowns at a plant in Fukushima in 2011.
Many people in Japan have longed for an apology by the United States for having dropped the bomb. Chris Mcgrath/Getty Images

Kohei Oiwa, an 83-year-old bombing survivor, sat silently through Mr. Abe’s remarks at the ceremony but criticized him bluntly afterward. He condemned legislation now before Parliament that would allow Japanese forces to fight overseas, in limited situations, for the first time since the war. And he criticized as hypocritical the government’s repeated pledges to help rid the world of nuclear weapons. Japan, he noted, accepts the protection of the United States, its former enemy turned close ally, including the deterrent provided by the American nuclear arsenal.

“Abe’s peace is a phony peace,” Mr. Oiwa said as he waited in line to lay a bouquet of flowers in front of the eternal flame.
Did the United States have to drop the bomb? *

You have 200 words left.

Continue

By submitting to us, you are promising that the content is original, doesn’t plagiarize from anyone or infringe a copyright or trademark, doesn’t violate anybody’s rights and isn’t libelous or otherwise unlawful or misleading. You are agreeing that we can use your submission in all manner and media of The New York Times and that we shall have the right to authorize third parties to do so. And you agree to the rules of our Member Agreement, found online at our website.

Thank you for your submission.

Such sentiments are widely shared by other survivors. After the ceremony, the leaders of seven groups representing survivors delivered a letter to Mr. Abe demanding that he withdraw the proposed legislation on military deployments. Yet while there are still close to 200,000 officially recognized survivors of Hiroshima and Nagasaki, their average age is over 80, and their numbers are quickly dwindling.

The mayor, Mr. Matsui, also took clear if indirect aim at Mr. Abe. In his official “peace declaration,” he criticized a desire often expressed by the prime minister and other conservatives to change the pacifist Constitution imposed by the victorious United States. Three generations after the conflict, they argue, Japan should be less constrained by its consequences.

Mr. Matsui, however, said, “It is demanded that the path to true peace indicated by the pacifism of the Japanese Constitution be spread to the world.”

Hiroshima, which rebounded vigorously after World War II, is now a thriving city of 1.1 million people, and most of its residents are less overtly political. Kazue Ichikawa, 77, who came to the ceremony with her daughter and granddaughter, said she was in the yard of a Buddhist temple that served as a wartime primary school when the bomb exploded. It was just far enough away that she and her classmates were spared.

“The force knocked me over a gravestone,” she said.

She said that she had not recounted her experiences to anyone outside her family, but that she was considering volunteering at the Hiroshima Peace Memorial Museum “to inform others of my granddaughter’s generation.”