A federal appeals panel ruled Wednesday that a strict voter identification law in Texas discriminated against blacks and Hispanics and violated the Voting Rights Act of 1965 a decision that election experts called an important step toward defining the reach of the landmark law.

The case is one of a few across the country that are being closely watched in legal circles after a 2013 Supreme Court decision that blocked the voting act’s most potent enforcement tool, federal oversight of election laws in numerous states, including Texas, with histories of racial discrimination.

While the federal act still bans laws that suppress minority voting, it has been uncertain exactly what kinds of measures cross the legal line since that Supreme Court ruling.

The Texas ID law is one of the strictest of its kind in the country. It requires voters to bring a government-issued photo ID to the polls. Accepted forms of identification include a driver’s license, a United States passport, a concealed-handgun license and an election identification certificate issued by the State Department of Public Safety.

Wendy R. Weiser, the director of the democracy program at the Brennan Center for Justice at New York University School of Law, called the ruling “great news for voters in Texas and for the country.”

“It does show the continuing relevance of the Voting Rights Act even in its weakened form,” said Ms. Weiser, whose organization helped represent some of the plaintiffs in the suit.

“But it’s bittersweet because we’ve now gone through a federal election with this discriminatory voting law in place.”

The plaintiffs, including individual voters, civil rights groups and the Department of Justice, said it was discriminatory because a far greater share of poor people and minorities do not have these forms of identification and lack easy access to birth certificates or other documents needed to obtain them.

Student identifications, voter registration cards and utility bills are not considered acceptable proof of identity.

In a sweeping ruling in 2014, a federal district court in Texas agreed with the plaintiffs about the effect the law had on minority voters.

But it also said legislators had intentionally adopted a discriminatory law, a conclusion that could have led to a restoration of federal oversight over Texas voting laws.

Although the appeals court upheld the finding of discriminatory effect, the three-judge panel said the lower court must re-examine its conclusion that Texas acted with discriminatory purpose.

Texas could appeal to the full Fifth Circuit Court of Appeals in New Orleans or the United States Supreme Court.

In a statement issued Wednesday afternoon, Gov. Greg Abbott did not say whether the state would appeal.

But the governor did say, “Texas will continue to fight for its voter ID requirement to ensure the integrity of elections in the Lone Star State.”

In a 147-page opinion issued in the fall of 2014 after a two-week trial, a district court judge, Nelva Gonzales Ramos, said the law “creates an unconstitutional burden on the right to vote” and blocked its enforcement.

She noted the lack of evidence that voter fraud was a threat and cited expert testimony that about 600,000 Texans, mainly poor, black and Hispanic, lacked the newly required IDs and often faced obstacles in obtaining them.

Texas appealed her decision to the Fifth Circuit, which, without deciding the issues, put the identification law back into effect, saying it would be too disruptive to change the rules so close to Election Day.

The appeals panel said Wednesday that because illegal intent to discriminate had not been established  in passing the law, legislators declared an interest in preventing voter fraud  the district court in Texas should seek ways to alter the voter law short of overturning it entirely. The state could, for example, reinstate the acceptance at the polls of certain forms of identification that may be more easily available.

Apparently referring to that part of the ruling, the Texas attorney general, Ken Paxton, said in a statement Wednesday that the decision was a “victory on the fundamental question of Texas’ right to protect the integrity of our elections,” adding that “our state’s common sense voter ID law remains in effect.”

But civil rights advocates focused on the court’s decision to uphold Judge Ramos’s finding that the ID law had a discriminatory effect, thus violating Section 2 of the federal Voting Rights Act.

The appeals court said it did not need to decide whether the law also violated provisions of the Constitution, like the 14th Amendment, and it rejected Judge Ramos’s finding that it amounted to an illegal poll tax.

The evidence that the law violated Section 2 was relatively strong, said Justin Levitt, an elections expert at Loyola Law School in Los Angeles, because the racial difference in impact was striking.

Another case, in North Carolina, involves what some say are more subtle effects, and could provide a more telling test of the Voting Rights Act.

There, civil rights advocates and the Department of Justice are challenging cutbacks in a range of measures used disproportionately by minorities, including early voting and same-day registration and voting.

A second case in Texas, involving a challenge to the state’s redistricting, could also set an important legal precedent.

In the Texas ID case, the Fifth Circuit said that Judge Ramos had used improper historical and other evidence to conclude that Texas had intended to discriminate and that the district court should “give further consideration” to the issue.

“This is a narrow but important victory coming on the eve of the 50th anniversary of the passage of the Voting Rights Act,” wrote Richard L. Hasen, a law professor at the University of California, Irvine, and the editor of Election Law Blog.

As firefighters on Wednesday embarked on their sixth day of battling the largest of the many wildfires that have flared across the state, fire officials said the Rocky Fire, which has grown to consume nearly 70,000 acres here in the northern reaches of wine country, was still nowhere near under control and may not be until perhaps Monday.

The Rocky Fire, which was impeded slightly by humid overnight conditions, has already defied firefighters’ expectations for how such blazes typically behave, and has crossed highways, fire lines and other barriers meant to contain it. Feeding on tinder-dry terrain and woodlands that have been parched by drought, the Rocky Fire is now 106 square miles and has forced the evacuation of 1,480 people; about 13,000 have been urged to leave their homes.

More than 3,840 firefighters are deployed across the uneven landscape of several counties, including Yolo, Colusa and Lake. They are cutting back underbrush to make fire-blocking tracts, and dropping water and flame retardant from nearly two dozen aircraft that fly through the smoky sky. But the fire is still only 20 percent contained, according to fire officials, and the flames are surging with unusual speed.
How It Happens | Forest Fires

Fuel, oxygen and heat combine to start wildfires, which destroy millions of acres each year in the United States.
By Aaron Byrd, David Frank and Henry Fountain on May 15, 2014. Photo by Mike Blake/Reuters. Watch in Times Video »

“I’ve got 30 years in, and in the last 10 years I have seen fire behavior that I had never seen in my entire career,” said Capt. Ron Oatman, a public information officer for Cal Fire, the state firefighting operation, and a longtime wild-land firefighter. For example, he said, on Saturday the Rocky Fire grew by 22,000 acres, a plot of land that computer models indicated would take about a week to burn. But that plot was consumed in five hours.

In the last three years, rain levels in California have been 24 to 30 inches below normal, according to the National Weather Service’s Climate Prediction Center, meaning the state has been missing about two years’ worth of rainfall. The drought has sapped moisture from underbrush and thick trees, dampness that would typically retard a fire.

“In this situation, we’ve had multiple years of precipitation deficit,” said Jeff Shelton, a fire behavior specialist who has been tracking the inferno for the firefighting operation. “In a single year, that can be bad on a short term, but when you stack multiple years together, there is a cumulative effect.”

The desiccated vegetation has become ideal fire fuel, Mr. Shelton said. “It’s potential energy, waiting for something to happen  and that’s exactly what we have.”
Kevin Dwyer, of the Vacaville Fire Department, dousing a hot spot. The Rocky Fire, which has consumed nearly 70,000 acres in Northern California, was 20 percent contained, officials said. Jim Wilson/The New York Times

The situation has rendered even the complex computer programs the firefighters use here at the mobile command center in the County Fairgrounds in Lakeport into futile predictors of how the fire will burn.

“We can’t just say, ‘We’ll turn up the volume on the models a bit,’ ” Mr. Shelton said. “We have to put new science to the back of this. We have to go back to square one and prove these models again with new information based on the new reality.”

That new reality, Mr. Shelton said, is that “fire seasons are lasting longer, fires are burning harder, hotter and faster.”

The mammoth fire comes at a time when the country is spending more money fighting fires than ever before, according to a new report put out by the Department of Agriculture that described the federal Forest Service as an“agency at its tipping point,” with the cost of firefighting projected to rise to nearly $1.8 billion in the next 10 years. Climate change, the report said, is “amplifying the effects and costs of wildfire.”
David and Rosemary Brookins, with a keepsake they grabbed before evacuating, outside a shelter in Middletown, Calif. Jim Wilson/The New York Times

On the ground, where crews are slashing down lines of trees and pulling up underbrush in an effort to scrape down to bare earth, where fire cannot catch, the changed fire behavior means that swaths have to be cut wider and that firefighters have less time during which it is safe to work. “The younger guys, we have to keep pulling them back,” Captain Oatman said, noting that the eagerness of novices to put out the fire must be tamped by new safety precautions in the face of speeding flames.

In the fire zone near Clearlake Oaks, teams of firefighters strode through ashy scrubland where the blaze had passed, putting out simmering pockets with hose water in clouds of smoke. The painstaking process of finding and eradicating hot spots will take place over the entire expanse of the fire’s path.

On Monday, the fire leapt across Highway 20, embers blowing from treetop to treetop, dismaying the firefighters, who had hoped to contain the blaze to one side of the road. The ability of a fire to keep catching  called its probability of ignition  is assessed by fire experts. The Rocky Fire has a probability of ignition of 100 percent, almost unheard-of when the tinder is forest and scrub, as it is here. “That’s something I’ve never seen,” Captain Oatman said.

In the gymnasium of nearby Middletown High School, a few evacuees were sleeping on green cots in an impromptu Red Cross shelter, one of two in the area. In the school’s theater, about a dozen people ate a meal of chicken and linguine, occasionally rising to scan a large printout of the day’s fire map on the wall, anxiously checking how close the angry red blotch was to their homes.

The call to evacuate instantly had come as a surprise to many. Rosemary Brookins, 79, was so frazzled that one of the only possessions she managed to grab on her way out was her good silverware  and a framed picture of herself at 19, the same photograph that her husband of 58 years, David, also 79, had carried with him when he was deployed abroad with the Marines during the Korean War.

Ms. Brookins said she would be all right even if the house burned down. “The house is old, “ she said with a laugh. “It’s my husband’s dream and my nightmare.”

In the parking lot, Barbara and Pat Jiron sat comforting their Chihuahuas, Cocoa and Little Bear, who were not allowed inside. The Jirons said they were unsure if their house was still standing. “If it’s gone, we’ll just go back and pitch a tent and start from scratch,” said Mr. Jiron, 77, as his wife sat next to him, holding the oxygen tank she uses to breathe. She looked at him with a faint smile. “Oh boy,” she said.

Correction: August 5, 2015
An earlier version of this article misstated the day that the fire jumped across Highway 20. It was Monday, not Saturday. 

President Obama on Wednesday made a powerful case for the strong and effective nuclear agreement with Iran. In a speech at American University, he directly rebutted critics like Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu of Israel and rightly warned of the damage to global security if the Republican-led Congress rejects the agreement.

“If Congress kills this deal, we will lose more than just constraints on Iran’s nuclear deal or the sanctions we have painstakingly built,” he said. “We will have lost something more precious  America’s credibility as a leader of diplomacy. America’s credibility is the anchor of the international system.”

He debunked the notion that there was a better deal to be had if American negotiators and the allies  France, Britain, Germany, Russia and China  had demanded that Iran capitulate and completely dismantle all of its nuclear facilities. That was not going to happen. The truth is, if Congress rejects the deal when it votes in September, the robust web of multinational sanctions the administration persuaded other countries to impose on Iran will crumble and the only way to keep Iran from gaining a nuclear weapon will be war, he said.

Mr. Obama’s defense of the deal, which is designed to prevent Iran from obtaining a nuclear weapon in exchange for relief from sanctions, was blunt and forceful. He likened Republicans to Iranian hard-liners, saying both are more comfortable with the status quo.

Congressional Republicans, Mr. Netanyahu and other opponents have mounted a multimillion-dollar lobbying campaign, including ads and a webcast on Tuesday by Mr. Netanyahu to American Jewish leaders in which he denounced the agreement as having “fatal flaws.”

Mr. Obama said he understood Israel’s security concerns and didn’t doubt the sincerity of Mr. Netanyahu’s objections, but he believes the deal is in the interests of both America and Israel. Mr. Obama also promised to redouble American support for Israel’s security.

The speech was so trenchant because Mr. Obama ably connected the opposition to the Iran agreement to recent history. “If the rhetoric in these ads and the accompanying commentary sounds familiar, it should, for many of the same people who argued for the war in Iraq are now making the case against the Iran nuclear deal,” he said.

As a presidential candidate, Mr. Obama opposed the Iraq war. Invading Iraq was a catastrophic mistake that destabilized the country and, more than anything, has enabled Iran to expand its influence in Iraq and in the region. Mr. Netanyahu, of course, was a strong supporter of the Iraq war and in September 2002 made that case in congressional testimony as a private citizen.

After 14 years of war, thousands of American and Iraqi lives lost and many thousands more people wounded, it is appalling that so many opponents of the Iran deal either would cavalierly support military action against Iran or are willing to risk it by rejecting the deal. This is an irrational posture, since, as Mr. Obama pointed out, he and future American presidents would be able to use force if Iran tried to build a bomb in coming years.

In putting the current situation into its proper context, Mr. Obama drew one crucial lesson from Iraq  the need to get beyond “a mind-set characterized by a preference for military action over diplomacy, a mind-set that put a premium on unilateral U.S. action over the painstaking work of building international consensus, a mind-set that exaggerated threats beyond what the intelligence supported.” Some members of Congress may not have learned that lesson after so many years of war, but surely the American public has.

After the speech, in a meeting with a small group of journalists, Mr. Obama said the possibility of war if the deal fails was a matter of logic. Though Iran may not attack the United States directly, it could threaten American troops in Iraq with Shiite militias there, threaten Israel with rocket attacks by Hezbollah or send a suicide bomber in a small craft against American naval ships in the Strait of Hormuz, he said.

Despite fierce opposition, Mr. Obama expressed confidence the deal would get through Congress, even if by the slimmest of margins. After nearly seven years in office and lots of tough decisions, he said, “I’ve never been more certain that this is sound policy.”

