Russia formally staked a claim on Tuesday to a vast area of the Arctic Ocean, including the North Pole.

If the United Nations committee that arbitrates sea boundaries accepts Russia’s claim, the waters will be subject to Moscow’s oversight on economic matters, including fishing and oil and gas drilling, though Russia will not have full sovereignty.

Under a 1982 United Nations convention, the Law of the Sea, a nation may claim an exclusive economic zone over the continental shelf abutting its shores. If the shelf extends far out to sea, so can the boundaries of the zone. The claim Russia lodged on Tuesday contends that the shelf extends far north of the Eurasian land mass, out under the planet’s northern ice cap.

Russia submitted a similar claim in 2002, but the United Nations rejected it for lack of scientific support. So this time, the Kremlin has offered new evidence collected by its research vessels. It even dispatched a well-known Arctic explorer, Artur N. Chilingarov, to take a miniature submarine to the sea floor directly below the North Pole, scoop up a soil sample and plant a Russian flag made of titanium there.

In a statement posted on its website, the Russian Foreign Ministry said the claim would expand Russia’s total territory on land and sea by about 1.2 million square kilometers, or about 463,000 square miles.

“To base its claim, Russia in this region used a broad range of scientific data collected over many years of Arctic exploration,” the statement said. “Submitting the claim to the commission is an important step in formulating Russia’s right to the Arctic Shelf in accordance with the United Nations convention on the Law of the Sea.”

Russia has set its sights northward for a long time. Under Stalin, the Kremlin claimed a huge pie-shaped section of the Arctic Ocean extending from its eastern and western borders to the North Pole.

For years nobody else paid much attention to boundaries in the high latitudes of the Arctic Ocean, populated only by polar bears, walruses, seals and the occasional explorer.

But global warming is changing that fast, as wider and wider areas of the Arctic become free of ice for all or part of the year. Russia has oil drilling projects in the Kara Sea, a part of the ocean already under its an undisputed control, and Royal Dutch Shell plans to drill north of Alaska in the Chukchi Sea this summer. Drilling even farther north now seems plausible.

Denmark submitted an expanded claim of its own to the United Nations last year, seeking control of economic activity around the North Pole and asserting that the area is part of the continental shelf jutting north from Greenland, not Russia.

The claims are aimed at a section of the Arctic Ocean known as the doughnut hole, a Texas-size area of international waters encircled by the existing economic-zone boundaries of shoreline countries. Conservation groups have opposed any claims to the waters of the doughnut hole, saying they would bring harmful oil drilling and fishing. They point to a recent international accord to ban commercial trawling in the area as the better way forward in the far north.

Greenpeace issued a statement on Tuesday by its Russian Arctic campaigner, Vladimir Chuprov, saying “the melting of the Arctic ice is uncovering a new and vulnerable sea, but countries like Russia and Norway want to turn it into the next Saudi Arabia.”

Russia is the largest country in the world by area, and it grew larger last year by annexing the Crimean Peninsula from Ukraine. The Russian Foreign Ministry statement said the United Nations commission should expedite the review of its claim, placing it before those of other countries, because it was first filed in 2002. The ministry said it expected a decision by autumn. Russia formally staked a claim on Tuesday to a vast area of the Arctic Ocean, including the North Pole.

If the United Nations committee that arbitrates sea boundaries accepts Russia’s claim, the waters will be subject to Moscow’s oversight on economic matters, including fishing and oil and gas drilling, though Russia will not have full sovereignty.

Under a 1982 United Nations convention, the Law of the Sea, a nation may claim an exclusive economic zone over the continental shelf abutting its shores. If the shelf extends far out to sea, so can the boundaries of the zone. The claim Russia lodged on Tuesday contends that the shelf extends far north of the Eurasian land mass, out under the planet’s northern ice cap.

Russia submitted a similar claim in 2002, but the United Nations rejected it for lack of scientific support. So this time, the Kremlin has offered new evidence collected by its research vessels. It even dispatched a well-known Arctic explorer, Artur N. Chilingarov, to take a miniature submarine to the sea floor directly below the North Pole, scoop up a soil sample and plant a Russian flag made of titanium there.

In a statement posted on its website, the Russian Foreign Ministry said the claim would expand Russia’s total territory on land and sea by about 1.2 million square kilometers, or about 463,000 square miles.

“To base its claim, Russia in this region used a broad range of scientific data collected over many years of Arctic exploration,” the statement said. “Submitting the claim to the commission is an important step in formulating Russia’s right to the Arctic Shelf in accordance with the United Nations convention on the Law of the Sea.”

Russia has set its sights northward for a long time. Under Stalin, the Kremlin claimed a huge pie-shaped section of the Arctic Ocean extending from its eastern and western borders to the North Pole.

For years nobody else paid much attention to boundaries in the high latitudes of the Arctic Ocean, populated only by polar bears, walruses, seals and the occasional explorer.

But global warming is changing that fast, as wider and wider areas of the Arctic become free of ice for all or part of the year. Russia has oil drilling projects in the Kara Sea, a part of the ocean already under its an undisputed control, and Royal Dutch Shell plans to drill north of Alaska in the Chukchi Sea this summer. Drilling even farther north now seems plausible.

Denmark submitted an expanded claim of its own to the United Nations last year, seeking control of economic activity around the North Pole and asserting that the area is part of the continental shelf jutting north from Greenland, not Russia.

The claims are aimed at a section of the Arctic Ocean known as the doughnut hole, a Texas-size area of international waters encircled by the existing economic-zone boundaries of shoreline countries. Conservation groups have opposed any claims to the waters of the doughnut hole, saying they would bring harmful oil drilling and fishing. They point to a recent international accord to ban commercial trawling in the area as the better way forward in the far north.

Greenpeace issued a statement on Tuesday by its Russian Arctic campaigner, Vladimir Chuprov, saying “the melting of the Arctic ice is uncovering a new and vulnerable sea, but countries like Russia and Norway want to turn it into the next Saudi Arabia.”

Russia is the largest country in the world by area, and it grew larger last year by annexing the Crimean Peninsula from Ukraine. The Russian Foreign Ministry statement said the United Nations commission should expedite the review of its claim, placing it before those of other countries, because it was first filed in 2002. The ministry said it expected a decision by autumn.

An article about office air conditioning set off a fierce gender debate among Times readers — and not just about thermostat settings.

The article, by Pam Belluck, a Times science reporter, cited a study published Monday by two Dutch scientists — both men, as Ms. Belluck noted — in the journal Nature Climate Change that said most office temperature standards were based on a 1960s-era “thermal comfort model” using men’s metabolic rates. (Specifically, the metabolic rate of a 40-year-old, 154-pound man, to which NYTReader from Pittsburgh remarked: “I don’t think they make that model anymore.”)

Women, accustomed to shivering powerlessly at their desks, cried foul, but several male readers contended that a different sort of injustice was at play — wardrobe inequality.

“Year round, I wear suits with a shirt and tie (and an undershirt to keep the shirt from sticking to my torso), closed shoes with socks. Many days I arrive at the office already perspiring heavily, while women colleagues show up with bare arms and bare legs and sandals,” said Ponderer from Mexico City. “If you want to reduce air conditioning costs and raise the office thermostat in summer, then rethink the male office worker’s summer apparel.”

Wilwallace from San Antonio said: “I am hot, sweaty and unable to ‘throw’ an air conditioner on to keep comfortable. Maybe that is why the formula was based on the sex that has no recourse to being hot while the gender who is cold can always find comfort in ‘throwing’ on a sweater.”

Some men took their umbrage a step further, saying that if women in the office were required to dress more like, well, men, they would no longer be cold.

Helios from Washington, D.C., said, “As a man I would like to wear shorts and a T-shirt to work, but my boss wouldn’t allow that. I am required to wear suit and tie, while some women wear cleavage tops and miniskirts and complain about the office being cold.”

“It’s the men who are discriminated against, as we are required to wear heavy shirts, shoes and socks and long pants. Women get away with T-shirts and flip flops, literally,” said Dan from West Palm Beach, Fla. “Put some ties and oxford button downs on these women, as well as some socks and shoes, and they won’t be cold, I assure you.”

Female readers fought back from beneath their office sweaters and Snuggies.

“For the people who are telling women to just ‘wear a sweater’ ... I am wearing a sweater,” Melissa from New York said. “And a cardigan over it. And a shawl that goes on top of that. And another sweater that goes on my lap around my legs. I’m also drinking hot tea nonstop. Please, please, please, turn down the A/C just a LITTLE bit. Sincerely, the lump of sweaters and blankets in the corner.”

SP of New Jersey said choice of clothing is beside the point. “I’m a woman who has to wear a suit to work, and I’m absolutely freezing in a button-up and blazer. This isn’t a scheme to get away with tank tops in the office! It’s extremely difficult to focus when you’re constantly uncomfortable.”

“The suggestion that women should dress differently (ie, in warmer clothes) makes sense, except when you consider the enormous pressure women are under to look ‘fashionable,’” said Susan W. of New York. “Apparently, women’s comfort just isn’t important, whether it’s what they wear or where they work. Could be a larger issue than A/C.”

“Here it is August, and I’ve basically given up wearing leg- or arm-bearing outfits into the office for fear of my skin dimpling with goose bumps and feeling miserable and uncomfortable,” said Eilat of New York. “Today I am wearing dark jeans and a long-sleeved shirt, even though it is 88 degrees out. I literally have 3 pashminas and a cardigan draped over my chair just in case. Time for office cooling systems to come into the 21st century!”

But readers of both sexes cautioned against attributing thermostat disagreements entirely to wardrobe. It seems that when it comes to office temperature, men may be from Venus (our solar system’s hottest planet) and women from Mars (whose thin atmosphere cannot hold heat).

Jen from Newark, Del., said, “As a graduate student working in a chemistry lab both males and females typically come in with the same outfit: long pants (for safety reasons) and a T-shirt. However, by midday the women spending time in our lab office usually have on a heavy sweatshirt and sometimes a blanket, whereas the men are still comfortable in a T-shirt.”

“I am an HVAC engineer, and this is a real-life issue, even in our small office,” wrote Matt from Vermont. “However, to highlight one of the fundamental issues with regard to solving the problem, look at the photo [from the original article] of Phoebe McPherson in her reverse Snuggie...the gentleman to whom she is talking is in short sleeves! And, presumably, he’s comfortable.”

“Let’s not pretend that women just need to put on a sweater and our fingers will stop turning purple,” said Carolyn of New York. “All of the whining from male commentators completely disregards the point of this article — that indoor temperatures are calculated based on men’s body temperatures ALONE. In what world is that not inherently discriminatory?? It needs to change.”

Since the outbreak that gave Legionnaires’ disease its name nearly four decades ago, water-cooling towers have been identified as prime breeding grounds for the deadly disease.

But even as cases have increased across the nation, and experts have called for more safeguards, New York City has done little to address the risks the towers pose as they power air-conditioning systems in many large buildings.

Now, as New York faces the largest outbreak of Legionnaires’ disease in the city’s history, Mayor Bill de Blasio and other officials are trying to marshal a more aggressive approach to the disease and to quell concerns raised by seven Legionnaires’ deaths since July 10, all of them in the South Bronx. At a news conference on Tuesday in the Bronx, the mayor said that the total number of cases had risen to 86 and that more cases were expected to be reported, though the outbreak appeared to be ebbing.

Given its name by a 1976 outbreak at an American Legion convention in Philadelphia, the airborne respiratory disease has sickened thousands of New Yorkers. The city’s first confirmed case, in 1977, was a 68-year-old Manhattan woman (who recovered), and since then, the disease has struck again and again, in apartment complexes, office buildings and even on a cruise ship. But the disease has typically come in smaller numbers and with only scattered deaths, and that has largely left the government reacting to outbreaks rather than trying to prevent them.
Mayor Bill de Blasio spoke at a news conference on Tuesday about the recent outbreak of Legionnaires' disease in the Bronx. Chang W. Lee/The New York Times

Often described as a severe form of pneumonia, the disease can spread through air-conditioning systems, exposed overhead pipes and other common features of urban life.

And it can take as little as walking by one of these sources carrying the legionella bacteria and inhaling its contaminated mist to contract the disease, though certain people — older adults, smokers, those with weakened immune systems — are more susceptible.

In recent years, the country has seen a spike in legionella-related illnesses. The number of cases reported to United States public health authorities rose to 4,548 in 2013 from 1,127 in 2000, according to a 2015 medical journal article.

This year, the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention has reported about 2,400 cases of Legionnaires’ disease nationwide, with more than 130 of them in New York City.

Precisely how and where the 86 people with Legionnaires’ in the current South Bronx outbreak contracted it remained under investigation by health authorities. But five water cooling towers — a component of the heating, ventilation and air-conditioning systems in many modern buildings — have tested positive for legionella in the affected area and are thought to be the source of the outbreak. That finding has highlighted longstanding concerns about the upkeep and oversight of the cooling towers, which provide the damp, warm environment that the bacteria need to thrive and must be cleaned regularly to prevent bacteria from taking root.

Dr. Jay Varma, deputy commissioner for disease control for the city health department, said in an interview that the city had not proposed regulation sooner in part because identifying the cause of the disease can be difficult in many cases. He said it was also not known how often cooling towers were the source. “The challenge is we don’t know where most infections normally come from,” he said.

In the South Bronx, Dr. Varma said, officials are confident that they have identified and addressed the likeliest cause of the outbreak but have yet to determine whether it was one or more of the towers. Citing privacy laws, he said the city would not release the names of the dead.

At the news conference on Tuesday, Mr. de Blasio said the city planned to tighten regulation of the towers, but in recent days, community leaders, neighborhood residents and industry experts have faulted the city for failing to have a more rigorous inspection regime in place.
A news conference was held at Lincoln Medical and Mental Health Center, one of the buildings in the Bronx with a cooling tower that tested positive for legionella bacteria. Chang W. Lee/The New York Times

Although the city currently monitors cases of Legionnaires’ disease, by the time health officials register an abnormal increase in diagnoses, an outbreak may already be underway, as the disease has an incubation period of up to 10 days.

In December and January, there was another outbreak of Legionnaires’ disease in the Bronx, with 12 confirmed cases. Eight involved residents of Co-op City, the sprawling complex of apartment buildings in the northeast Bronx. Cooling towers were later found with the bacteria. None of those cases were fatal.

Mr. de Blasio, in defending the city’s response on Tuesday, said the recent outbreaks in the Bronx had underscored the key role of cooling towers in spreading the disease and had prompted city officials to become more active. “Previously, and this is the consensus of everyone I’ve talked to who are experts in this field, there wasn’t an identified pattern that suggested these cooling towers were a problem,” he said. “Now we have a pattern.”

But a study published last year by researchers in the city’s health department documented the rapid increase in cases of the disease and pointed to cooling towers as one of the risk factors in outbreaks. The study also noted that the disease was often concentrated in impoverished neighborhoods, saying, “If environmental issues in high-poverty neighborhoods contribute to the disparity, greater effort may be warranted, for example, on the upkeep of cooling towers and water systems in the buildings in these areas.”
People had the opportunity on Monday evening to ask questions about the outbreak at a town hall meeting held in the Bronx Museum of Arts. Hiroko Masuike/The New York Times

The C.D.C., the New York State Department of Health and a variety of industry groups have all published guidelines for maintaining cooling towers in an effort to help health care facilities prevent the spread of legionella bacteria. In June, the American Society of Heating, Refrigerating, and Air-Conditioning Engineers, an influential engineering association, specifically addressed cooling towers in a standard published in June to reduce the risk of legionella.

But generally such standards are not binding, leaving building operators to weigh the risks of legionella with the hefty price of monitoring.

“Hindsight is 20-20, but it’s not a new disease,” said Bill Pearson, who served on the committee that wrote the recent standard. “And it’s not like we haven’t known about the risk of cooling towers, and it’s not like people in New York haven’t died of Legionnaires’ before.”

In 2000, City Councilman James S. Oddo, who represented Staten Island, proposed a resolution to determine best practices for preventing Legionnaires’ disease at hospitals in the city. The resolution, which Mr. Oddo, now the Staten Island borough president, says was inspired by a report he saw on television, ultimately failed.

A grave warning came five years later. Seven patients contracted Legionnaires’ disease, two of whom died, at NewYork-Presbyterian/Columbia hospital, and a city and state investigation traced the source to a tainted water supply in a hospital building. The hospital, which was cited by state health officials, later adopted a stringent monitoring system.

But concerns about the disease have lingered around the city. Indeed, during a 2010 committee hearing on indoor air hazards that might spread legionella and other bacteria, James F. Gennaro, then a city councilman from Queens, interrupted a representative for a contractors’ association to say his testimony was “freaking me out so bad I’m putting like, you know, Purell on right now.”

One of the largest outbreaks took place in 1994 on the cruise ship Horizon, part of Celebrity Cruises, which departed from New York City. One passenger died from Legionnaires’ disease, and federal health officials found 16 other confirmed and 34 suspected cases of the illness in passengers on the Horizon between late May and mid-July of that year. The outbreak was traced to legionella found in the sand used in filters in the ship’s whirlpool baths.

This week archaeologists, wildlife ecologists and other scientists on Twitter shared embarrassing moments from their field research using the hashtag #FieldWorkFail. Among the confessions were tales of elephants crushing trap cameras, paleontologists accidentally swallowing fossils, and one case where a researcher unintentionally glued herself to a crocodile.

Not all fieldwork mistakes are as amusing, but even the unfunny ones can be fortuitous. For Carlos Jared, a biologist from the Butantan Institute in São Paulo, Brazil, a mishap in the desert led to a new discovery.

Dr. Jared had been studying tree frogs in the cactus and thorn forests of northeastern Brazil for decades. But on one particular day he wanted to get his hands on Corythomantis greeningi, a frog with a helmet-shaped head covered in tiny spines.

“During collection, very soon I realized that when grasping them with the palm of the hand, they intensely move the head in a characteristic butting behavior,” Dr. Jared said in an email. Later he felt a sharp pain radiating through his arm, which he described as being far worse than the worst wasp sting imaginable. Dr. Jared was at least four hours away from any hospital, so he decided to tough it out in the desert. Five hours later, the excruciating pain subsided on its own.

It wasn’t until he examined the frogs under a microscope that he discovered that the spines on their upper lips were covered in poison glands. “It took me a long time to realize that the pain had a relationship with the intense and careless collection of these animals hitting the palm of my hands,” he said. When the frog head-butted him, it envenomed him too.

Researchers already knew that the frog secretes toxins from its skin, but the poisoned spines on the head had not been documented before. Dr. Jared and his colleagues found that the same spiny and bony head occurs in another frog species, Aparasphenodon brunoi, which lives in the Atlantic rain forests of South America. They decided to test how toxic the two frogs were in the lab by injecting the poisons into rodents. To their surprise, they found that in mice, A. brunoi's secretions were 25 times as lethal as a Brazilian pit viper's venom, and those of C. greeningi, the one that pricked Dr. Jared, were twice as lethal.

Although Dr. Jared did not tweet his fieldwork faux pas, he did mention it along with his findings in a paper published Thursday in the journal Current Biology.

This is the first time anyone has suggested that a frog can be venomous, according to Edmund Brodie, a biologist from Utah State University and co-author on the paper. Hundreds of species of frogs are poisonous, like the Amazon’s brightly colored poison dart frog. But to be classified as venomous, a creature must have a method by which it can inflict that poison into a victim. For these two frogs, flailing the head suffices.

“It all started because Carlos was out collecting them and got jabbed in the hand by one of them,” Dr. Brodie said. “This is how one makes those ‘Eureka’ discoveries!” 

In what the United Nations secretary general, Ban Ki-moon, described Monday as the organization’s “to-do” list for the next 15 years, its 193 member states have agreed on an agenda for global development that aims to eliminate poverty and hunger, protect the environment from climate change, achieve gender equality and raise living standards. The agreement, known as the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development, was finalized over the weekend after negotiations that began a few years ago. It will be formally adopted at a United Nations summit meeting next month. The agenda supersedes and broadens the eight Millennium Development Goals set in 2000, which Mr. Ban has credited with helping to raise more than one billion people out of abject poverty.

After years of delay, the Securities and Exchange Commission approved a sensible final rule on Wednesday that will force publicly traded companies to reveal how the pay of chief executives compares with that of typical employees.

The new “pay ratio” rule, part of the Dodd-Frank financial reform law, requires companies to compute and disclose the ratio of chief executive pay to the median pay of employees, while skillfully addressing complaints from corporate America that doing so would be a costly logistical nightmare. For instance, it allows statistical sampling to compute median pay, which will make the calculation easier for companies with many employees in differing locations.

The rule also addresses corporate concerns that are clearly political, while upholding the law’s purpose, which is to expose the gap between pay for the top boss and pay for everyone else. For instance, companies with large and generally low-paid foreign work forces are understandably worried about large pay gaps. The rule lets companies exclude a small share of their foreign work force, generally up to 5 percent, a compromise that will not alter the ratio substantially.

Similarly, the rule lets companies report the ratio every three years, rather than every year, as was previously proposed. That is not ideal, but once pay-ratio information starts to become available, shareholder demand for consistent and timely disclosure is likely to lead to more frequent updates.

Unfortunately, the rule does not take effect until 2017, which means the first disclosures will appear on securities filings in 2018. That is a lot of time for opponents to try to derail the rule, especially if Republicans, who have consistently opposed the pay-ratio disclosure, take the White House in the next election.

Still, they would be fighting a rule whose time has come. Shareholders were recently granted the right to cast advisory votes on executive pay; the pay-ratio measure will inform those votes by providing a benchmark to gauge whether executive pay is excessive. It will also provide a counterweight to current practice, which is simply to compare an executive’s pay with that of other chief executives in the same industry. That method has contributed to ever upward spiraling executive pay: C.E.O. compensation is currently about 300 times that of typical workers, compared with 30 times in 1980.

Company-specific ratios will also help shareholders evaluate the effect of skewed pay policies on company performance. What are the consequences for morale and turnover? Is a company courting reputational harm by paying its chief lavishly while paying its workers poorly?

The vote on the five-member S.E.C. was divided on partisan lines. The two Republican commissioners who opposed the pay-ratio rule have also opposed other recent executive-pay proposals, including one on “pay versus performance” that would detail how executive pay tracks company results, and one on “clawbacks” that would require executive bonuses to be revoked if the financial reports on which they were based turned out to be wrong.

The pay-ratio rule will need to be carefully policed, by regulators and shareholder activists, to guard against noncompliance and manipulation. Properly enforced, it can give shareholders information that can help foster much needed change in corporate norms.

President Obama on Wednesday made a powerful case for the strong and effective nuclear agreement with Iran. In a speech at American University, he directly rebutted critics like Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu of Israel and rightly warned of the damage to global security if the Republican-led Congress rejects the agreement.

“If Congress kills this deal, we will lose more than just constraints on Iran’s nuclear deal or the sanctions we have painstakingly built,” he said. “We will have lost something more precious — America’s credibility as a leader of diplomacy. America’s credibility is the anchor of the international system.”

He debunked the notion that there was a better deal to be had if American negotiators and the allies — France, Britain, Germany, Russia and China — had demanded that Iran capitulate and completely dismantle all of its nuclear facilities. That was not going to happen. The truth is, if Congress rejects the deal when it votes in September, the robust web of multinational sanctions the administration persuaded other countries to impose on Iran will crumble and the only way to keep Iran from gaining a nuclear weapon will be war, he said.

Mr. Obama’s defense of the deal, which is designed to prevent Iran from obtaining a nuclear weapon in exchange for relief from sanctions, was blunt and forceful. He likened Republicans to Iranian hard-liners, saying both are more comfortable with the status quo.

Congressional Republicans, Mr. Netanyahu and other opponents have mounted a multimillion-dollar lobbying campaign, including ads and a webcast on Tuesday by Mr. Netanyahu to American Jewish leaders in which he denounced the agreement as having “fatal flaws.”

Mr. Obama said he understood Israel’s security concerns and didn’t doubt the sincerity of Mr. Netanyahu’s objections, but he believes the deal is in the interests of both America and Israel. Mr. Obama also promised to redouble American support for Israel’s security.

The speech was so trenchant because Mr. Obama ably connected the opposition to the Iran agreement to recent history. “If the rhetoric in these ads and the accompanying commentary sounds familiar, it should, for many of the same people who argued for the war in Iraq are now making the case against the Iran nuclear deal,” he said.

As a presidential candidate, Mr. Obama opposed the Iraq war. Invading Iraq was a catastrophic mistake that destabilized the country and, more than anything, has enabled Iran to expand its influence in Iraq and in the region. Mr. Netanyahu, of course, was a strong supporter of the Iraq war and in September 2002 made that case in congressional testimony as a private citizen.

After 14 years of war, thousands of American and Iraqi lives lost and many thousands more people wounded, it is appalling that so many opponents of the Iran deal either would cavalierly support military action against Iran or are willing to risk it by rejecting the deal. This is an irrational posture, since, as Mr. Obama pointed out, he and future American presidents would be able to use force if Iran tried to build a bomb in coming years.

In putting the current situation into its proper context, Mr. Obama drew one crucial lesson from Iraq — the need to get beyond “a mind-set characterized by a preference for military action over diplomacy, a mind-set that put a premium on unilateral U.S. action over the painstaking work of building international consensus, a mind-set that exaggerated threats beyond what the intelligence supported.” Some members of Congress may not have learned that lesson after so many years of war, but surely the American public has.

After the speech, in a meeting with a small group of journalists, Mr. Obama said the possibility of war if the deal fails was a matter of logic. Though Iran may not attack the United States directly, it could threaten American troops in Iraq with Shiite militias there, threaten Israel with rocket attacks by Hezbollah or send a suicide bomber in a small craft against American naval ships in the Strait of Hormuz, he said.

Despite fierce opposition, Mr. Obama expressed confidence the deal would get through Congress, even if by the slimmest of margins. After nearly seven years in office and lots of tough decisions, he said, “I’ve never been more certain that this is sound policy.”

A few years ago, Americans and Europeans were asked in a Pew Global Attitudes survey what was more important: “freedom to pursue life’s goals without state interference,” or “state guarantees that nobody is in need.” In the United States, 58 percent chose freedom and only 35 percent a state pledge to eradicate neediness. In Britain, the response was the opposite: 55 percent opted for state guarantees and just 38 percent for freedom. On the European Continent — in Germany, France and Spain — those considering state protection as more important than freedom from state interference rose to 62 percent.

This finding gets to the heart of trans-Atlantic differences. Americans, who dwell in a vast country, sparsely populated by European standards, are hardwired to the notion of individual self-reliance. Europeans, with two 20th-century experiences of cataclysmic societal fracture, are bound to the idea of social solidarity as prudent safeguard and guarantor of human decency. The French see the state as a noble idea and embodiment of citizens’ rights. Americans tend to see the state as a predator on those rights. The French ennoble the dutiful public servant. Americans ennoble the disruptive entrepreneur.

To return from Europe to the United States, as I did recently, is to be struck by the crumbling infrastructure, the paucity of public spaces, the conspicuous waste (of food and energy above all), the dirtiness of cities and the acuteness of their poverty. It is also to be overwhelmed by the volume and vital clamor of American life, the challenging interaction, the bracing intermingling of Americans of all stripes, the strident individualism. Europe is more organized, America more alive. Europe purrs; even its hardship seems somehow muted. America revs. The differences can feel violent.

In his intriguing new book, “The United States of Excess,” Robert Paarlberg, a political scientist, cites the 2011 Pew survey as he grapples with these divergent cultures. His focus is on American overconsumption of fuel and food. Why, he asks, is the United States an “outlier” in greenhouse gas emissions and obesity, and what, if anything, will it do about it? Per capita carbon dioxide emissions in the United States are about twice those of the other wealthy nations of the 34-member Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development. American obesity (just over a third of American adults are now obese) is running at about twice the European average and six times the Japanese.

Paarlberg argues persuasively that these American phenomena are linked. He finds their causes in demographic, cultural and political factors. A resource-rich, spacious nation, mistrustful of government authority, persuaded that responsibility is individual rather than collective, optimistic about the capacity of science and technology to resolve any problem, and living in a polarized political system paralyzed by its “multiple veto points,” tends toward “a scrambling form of adaptation” rather than “effective mitigation.”

Americans, in their majority, don’t want to increase taxes on fossil fuels or tax sugar-sweetened drinks because they see such measures as a regressive encroachment on individual freedoms — to drive an automobile and consume what you want. They won’t go the German route of promoting renewables like solar and wind power by guaranteeing higher fixed prices for those who generate it because higher electricity costs would result. Whether it comes to food or fuel, they don’t want measures where “voting-age adults are being coerced into a lifestyle change.”

Individualism trumps all — and innovation, it is somehow believed, will save the country from individualism’s ravages. Paarlberg notes that: “Americans eat alone while at work, alone while commuting to work in the car, alone at the food court while shopping, alone at home while watching TV, and alone in front of the refrigerator both before and after normal mealtime.”

But if all that eating continues to generate obesity — as it will — Americans tend to put their faith in “improved bariatric surgeries, and new blockbuster diet drugs” that “will be challenges welcomed by America’s innovative and responsive private market institutions.” Rather than cut back, they prefer to consume more — whether fuel or food — and then find ways to offset excess.

With the strong policy measures needed to control excess consumption — taxes, regulations and mandates — blocked, political leaders are “tempted to shift more resources and psychological energy toward the second-best path of adaptation,” Paarlberg writes: Easier, and potentially more profitable, to develop drought-resistant farm crops or improve coastal protection systems than tackle global warming by cutting greenhouse gas emissions.

His conclusions are pessimistic. The world should not expect America to change. Its response to overconsumption is inadequate. On global warming, the country adapts but does not confront, content “to protect itself, and itself alone.” On obesity, it shuns the kind of coordinated policy action that will help the less fortunate, particularly disadvantaged minorities.

The question, of course, is whether America’s virtues — its creative churn, vitality and energy — are intrinsic to these vices. My own pessimistic conclusion is that they probably are.

As if Greece didn’t have enough on its hands after its European creditors forced it to accept a damaging bailout deal last month, it is also trying to cope with more refugees crossing the Mediterranean to its shores than to any other country in Europe. It is unconscionable for Europe to expect Greece to shoulder this burden, yet that is exactly what is happening.

More than 107,000 refugees and immigrants have landed in Greece this year, surpassing the 80,000 reaching Italy. More than half are Syrians fleeing the civil war.

The refugees, arriving in Greece at a rate of 1,000 a day, are exhausted, dehydrated and hungry. The few reception centers operated by the Greek government are overwhelmed and cannot offer this population enough food, much less shelter or medical care. But for those who risked their lives to reach Europe there is no turning back.

With the Greek government in no position to commit more resources to the problem, residents on the island of Lesbos — where many refugees from the Middle East land because of its proximity to Turkey — have responded generously, providing meals, blankets and dry clothing. Their response should shame others in Europe, particularly the British government, which is panicking over the prospect that a mere 3,000 migrants in Calais, France, might make it across the English Channel.

Europe’s migration crisis, which is growing more urgent by the day, cannot be solved by citizen volunteers in the Continent’s most financially damaged country. The European Union agreed last month to take 40,000 refugees from Greece and Italy over the next two years, but that is a laughable number given the scope of the crisis. Even then, member nations could not agree on how many each would accept, something the European Commission says it will now try to get done by the end of this year.

Greece needs help from Europe, and it needs it now. The European Commission should immediately allocate emergency funds to Greece for refugee services. It must also compel member states to take action if the union is to have any credibility at all.

President Obama has never seemed so sure-footed on foreign policy as now, when he is battling against determined opponents to persuade the American public and Congress on the merits of the Iran nuclear deal.

“Of all the foreign policy issues that I’ve addressed since I’ve been president, I’ve never been more certain that this is sound policy, that it’s the right thing to do for the United States, that it’s the right thing to do for our allies,” he told a small group of journalists during a 90-minute meeting at the White House on Wednesday shortly after defending the deal in a speech at American University.

After nearly seven years in office, and repeated foreign policy crises, Mr. Obama said he is more convinced than ever that “we underestimate our power when we restrict it to just our military power. We shortchange our influence and our ability to shape events when that’s the only tool we think we have in the toolbox.”

The Iran debate is not just about the nuclear deal, which would significantly roll back the Iran’s nuclear program in return for a lifting of sanctions. It has also become a referendum on the broader question of whether diplomacy still has a place in American foreign policy. The forces willing to reject the deal and risk war have been alarmingly effective at fear-mongering and dominating the debate.

Mr. Obama framed his argument for the deal with historical precedents. One was the American invasion of Iraq — which many opponents of the Iran deal, including Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu of Israel, strongly pushed for in 2002. That war has been catastrophic for the region and has cost the United States thousands of lives and hundreds of billions of dollars. Mr. Obama opposed the war.

The other, he said, is two of his predecessors: John F. Kennedy, who resisted the “prevailing attitude among some foreign policy circles that equated security with a perpetual war footing” and resolved the Cuban missile crisis peacefully; and Ronald Reagan, who also came under political fire for negotiating with the Soviets. Both men helped create “the time and space to win the Cold War without firing a shot at the Soviets,” Mr. Obama said.

Mr. Obama knew little about foreign policy when he took office but experience has given him a better understanding “how military action can result in unintended consequences.”

That’s why, he said, “where we can achieve an objective with a unified world behind us, and we preserve our hedge against it not working out, I think it would be foolish — even tragic — for us to pass up on that opportunity.”

Beyond restraining Iran’s nuclear ambitions, Mr. Obama believes the deal has opened the door “a crack” to a political resolution of the Syria war because both Russia and Iran “recognize that the trend lines are not good” for Bashar al-Assad, Syria’s leader. There has been no significant breakthrough but the conversations with Moscow and Tehran are more serious, he said.

As he looks for broader diplomatic opportunities with Iran, Mr. Obama is clear-eyed about the country’s “repressive theocracy” and says he is confident that the supreme leader, Ayatollah Ali Khamenei, given his anti-Semitic ideology, would “inflict great harm on Israel” if he could do it without catastrophic cost.

Even so, “it is possible for leaders or regimes to be cruel, bigoted, twisted in their world views and still make rational calculations with respect to their limits and their self-preservation,” Mr. Obama said.

It would be best for Congress to provide strong bipartisan support for an agreement as important as the Iran deal. But given the opponents’ multimillion-dollar campaign to block it, Mr. Obama said he would be satisfied if it survives with a slim margin of support.

Given the polarization in Washington, “I think it’s fair to say if I presented a cure for cancer, getting legislation passed to move that forward would be a nail-biter,” he added. 